Hi, guys, and welcome to the exam cram for Amazon EC2.
So let's get started with EC2, you launch virtual server instances on the IWC cloud.
Each virtual server is known as an instance with easy to you.
Get full control at the operating system, layer keypads and then use to securely connect to instances.
And the storage is even Amazon EBS, which is persistent storage, or Instant Store, which is non persistent
storage.
An Amazon machine image provides the information required to launch an instance, and an army includes
a template for the volume of the instance, launch permissions and a block device mapping, which specifies
which volume to attach to the instance.
Armies are regional, so you can only launch an ally from the region in which it is created, but you
can copy armies to other regions using the console command line or the API instance.
Metadata is the data about your instance that you can use to configure or manage the running instance.
Whereas user data is data that gets supplied in the form of a script and that runs at system startup
instance.
Metadata is available at this URL and user data is available at this URL.
I haven't seen those coming up.
An exam questions any more, not for quite a long time.
So you probably don't need to remember these by heart for the exam, but it's still useful to know.
Benefits of Amazon Easy to include elastic computing You can easily launch hundreds to thousands of
easy to instances within minutes.
You get complete control with full root and administrative access.
They're flexible.
You have a choice of instance types, operating system, software packages, the type of storage you're
adding, and so on and so forth.
They're reliable, easy to offers, very high levels of availability, and instances can be rapidly
commissioned and replace where needed.
It's secure, it's fully integrated with Amazon, VPC and the security features of IWC.
It's also relatively inexpensive, so it can be very low cost and you only pay for what you use.
Now, remember, the different types of IP address we've got the public IP address, the private and
the elastic.
The key things about the public address are it gets lost.
When you stop your instance, you'll get a new one the next time you start it.
They used in public subnets and you don't get charged for them.
We've private IP addresses, they are retained when the instance is stopped and you use those in all
types of subnets.
We have an elastic IP.
This is another public IP address, but it is actually attached to your instance such that it's still
going to be there when you stop the instance and started again.
And you can move these around so you can move your elastic IP between different instances or is moving
onto placement groups.
The Cluster Placement Group is designed to keep instances very close for low latency.
Think about high performance computing, tightly coupled applications where you've got nodes, no communication
and you need extremely low latency.
Partition will spread your instances across logical partitions so that the groups in one partition don't
share the same underlying hardware with other groups of instances.
So you can use this for high availability.
It's usually used with distributed and replicated workloads.
For example, Hadoop, Cassandra and Kafka.
Lastly, we have the Spread Placement Group.
This will place a small group of instances across distinct underlying hardware to reduce any kind of
correlated failures.
So all instances are on different hardware, not instances versus not gateways.
So remember the key differences between these?
Then that instance is fully managed by you.
It's really the old way of doing things that gateway is likely to be the best solution in most use cases.
It's fully managed by IWC.
You get more scalability have in that gateway.
You get automatic high availability as well.
The only real limitations of the NAT Gateway are things like you can't use it as a bastion host, but
you should probably separate that into a different instance anyway.
There are also no security groups within that gateway, whereas there are within that instance.
Whether that's a pro or con really depends on your use case.
Let's quickly run through the two instance lifecycle.
Stopping instances works only for EBS backed instances, and there's no charge for a stopped instance.
But there is a charge for any EBS volumes in terms of the amount of data that stored data and RAM gets
lost.
And typically, the instance is migrated to a different host.
When you started again, private IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are retained, public addresses lost.
Any associated elastic IP will, of course, be retained.
Then we've got hibernation.
Hibernation applies to demand or reserved Linux instances.
The contents of RAM get saved to an earpiece.
Volume has to be enabled for hibernation when launched, and specific prerequisites do apply when you
start an instance after hibernation, the root volume is restored to its previous state.
The RAM contents are then reloaded and the processes that were previously running on the instance get
resumed.
And he previously attached volumes, are we attached an instance retains this instance I.D. the reboot's
against and says this is the equivalent to an operating system reboot the DNS name and IP address and
gets retained.
It doesn't affect billing at all because the instance is still running and it hasn't stopped and started.
So it's not a new billing lifecycle.
AWB may sometimes retire instances if there's some irreparable failure of the underlying hardware,
or when an instance reaches its scheduled retirement date.
It might be stopped or terminated by AWB as of course, they'll notify you if that happens.
Sermonizing EC2 instances essentially means deleting the instance, and you can't recover a terminated
instance by default.
The EBS volumes are deleted, and for recovering instances.
This is where Cloud Watch is monitoring the system status and you can recover the instance if required.
It applies if the instance becomes impaired due to underlying hardware or platform issues.
So not necessarily application or operating system layer problems.
A recovered instance is identical to the original instance.
The Nitro system is the underlying platform for the newer generation EC2 instances, and it breaks logical
functions into specialized hardware with a hypervisor.
The hardware includes the Nitro cards, the VPC, EBS Instant Storage, a card controller, a security
chip and the hypervisor itself, and also on Clyde's.
Nitro aims to improve performance, security and innovation.
The performance is close to bare metal, even for virtualized instances.
It gives you the DNA and the EFI.
You have more available bare metal instance types you can use, and it gives you higher network performance.
It's also good for HPC because there's more optimizations for high performance computing, and it can
also have dense storage instances as well.
Nitro enclaves are isolated compute environments that run on hardened virtual machines.
There's no persistent storage, interactive access or external networking, and it uses cryptographic
attestation to ensure only the authorized code is running and integrates with K Mass.
It's good for securing and protecting highly sensitive data like PII health care data, financial data
or intellectual property data.
For easy to pricing options we've got on demand, which is the standard rate.
There's no discount, there's no commitment.
And so it's very good for any kind of short term requirements or unpredictable workloads.
We then got reserved one or three year commitment, but you get a good discount with spotty instances.
You get very low price because you're essentially using unused capacity so you can get a large discount,
but you can also be terminated at any time.
Dedicated instances of a physical isolation at the host hardware level from instances belonging to other
customers.
A new paper instance dedicated hosts is physical servers dedicated for your use, so you get the actual
hardware dedicated for you.
There's no sharing going on there.
It's all including with workloads from your own accounts.
And then lastly, that savings plans where you can commit to a certain amount of usage for various compute
services.
And again, you have a one or three year commitment.
So dedicated instances and dedicated hosts.
A few of the key differences are on the screen for you here.
Of course, one that jumps out is the way your build your peld, per instance for dedicated instances
and per host for dedicated hosts.
You get deeper insights and control with dedicated hosts, you can see the sockets the cause.
You can assign certain instances to certain hardware in that kind of thing, and that's it for this
exam crime.